Adding a dumpload of documentation (#113)
ESMValGroup/ESMValCore: doc/esmvalcore/config.rst

Configuration files
*******************

Overview
========

There are several configuration files in ESMValTool:

* ``config-user.yml``: sets a number of user-specific options like desired
  graphical output format, root paths to data etc. 
* ``config-developer.yml``: sets a number of standardized file-naming and paths to data
  formatting;
* ``config-references.yml``: stores information on diagnostic authors and scientific
  journals references;

> * ``config-logging.yml``: stores information on logging (duh!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``config-logging.yml``: stores information on logging.
```

User configuration file
=======================

The ``config-user.yml`` is one of the two files the user needs to provide to the

> ``esmvaltool`` executable at run time, the second being ``recipe.yml`` (named accordingly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``esmvaltool`` executable at run time, the second being the recipe.
```
and I would replace recipe with the link to the corresponding section.

> as per the specific diagnostic/recipe used).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as per the specific diagnostic/recipe used).
```

  # these files are numbered according to the preprocessing order
  save_intermediary_cubes: false

  # Remove the preproc dir if all fine
  # this option true will remove ALL preprocessor files
  # CAUTION when using: if you need those files, set it to false
  remove_preproc_dir: true

  # Run at most this many tasks in parallel null/[1]/2/3/4/..
  # Set to null to use the number of available CPUs.
  # Make sure your system has enough memory for the specified number of tasks.
  max_parallel_tasks: 1

  # Path to custom config-developer file, to customise project configurations.
  # See config-developer.yml for an example. Set to None to use the default
  config_developer_file: null

  # Get profiling information for diagnostics
  # Only available for Python diagnostics
  profile_diagnostic: false

  # Rootpaths to the data from different projects (lists are also possible)
  rootpath:
    CMIP5: [~/cmip5_inputpath1, ~/cmip5_inputpath2]
    OBS: ~/obs_inputpath
    default: ~/default_inputpath

  # Directory structure for input data: [default]/BADC/DKRZ/ETHZ/etc
  # See config-developer.yml for definitions.
  drs:
    CMIP5: default

> Most of these settings are fairly self-explanatory, ie:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of these settings are fairly self-explanatory, e.g.:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  # Diagnostics create plots? [true]/false
  write_plots: true
  # Diagnositcs write NetCDF files? [true]/false
  write_netcdf: true

> The ``write_plots`` setting is used to inform ESMValTool about your preference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``write_plots`` setting is used to inform ESMValTool diagnostics about your preference
```

> for saving figures. Similarly, the ``write_netcdf`` setting is a boolean which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for creating figures. Similarly, the ``write_netcdf`` setting is a boolean which
```

> turns on or off the writing of netCDF files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
turns on or off the writing of netCDF files by the diagnostic scripts.
```
since the preprocessor will always write them.

.. code-block:: yaml

  # Auxiliary data directory (used for some additional datasets)
  auxiliary_data_dir: ~/auxiliary_data

The ``auxiliary_data_dir`` setting is the path to place any required

> additional auxiliary data files. This method was necessary because certain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional auxiliary data files. This is necessary because certain
```

Python toolkits such as cartopy will attempt to download data files at run
time, typically geographic data files such as coastlines or land surface maps.
This can fail if the machine does not have access to the wider internet. This
location allows us to tell cartopy (and other similar tools) where to find the
files if they can not be downloaded at runtime. To reiterate, this setting is
not for model or observational datasets, rather it is for data files used in

> plotting such as coastline descriptions and so on.

Reviewer: Highlight this last sentence as a warning, using sphinx syntax.

.. note::

   **Pro Tip: working with multiple config-user files.**

   You choose your config.yml file at run time, so you could have several
   available with different purposes. One for formalised run, one for debugging, etc.

.. note::

   **Note on data finding sections of the config-user file.**

   A detailed explanation of the data finding-related sections of the ``config-user.yml``
   (``rootpath`` and ``drs``) is presented in config-user-rootpath_ and config-user-drs_
   in the Data Finder section; these sections relate directly to the data finding capabilities
   of ESMValTool and are very important to be understood by the user.

.. _config-developer:

Developer configuration file
============================

This configuration file describes the file system structure for several
key projects (CMIP5, CMIP6) on several key machines (BADC, CP4CDS, DKRZ, ETHZ,
SMHI, BSC) - CMIP data is stored as part of the Earth System Grid Federation (ESGF)
and the standards for file naming and paths to files are set out by CMOR and DRS.

> For a detailed description of these standards and how the impact on the use in ESMValTool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed description of these standards and their adoption in ESMValTool,
```

we refer the user to CMOR-DRS_ section where we relate these standards to the data retrieval
mechanism built-in ESMValTool.

> The data directory structure of the CMIP5/6 projects is set up differently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data directory structure of the CMIP projects is set up differently
```

  write_plots: true

  # Diagnositcs write NetCDF files? [true]/false
  # turning it off will turn off netCDF output from diagnostic
  write_netcdf: true

  # Set the console log level debug, [info], warning, error
  # for much more information printed to screen set log_level: debug
  log_level: info
  # verbosity is deprecated and will be removed in the future
  # verbosity: 1

  # Exit on warning? true/[false]
  exit_on_warning: false

  # Plot file format? [ps]/pdf/png/eps/epsi
  output_file_type: pdf

  # Destination directory where all output will be written
  # including log files and performance stats
  output_dir: ./esmvaltool_output

  # Auxiliary data directory (used for some additional datasets)
  # this is where e.g. files can be downloaded to by a download
  # script embedded in the diagnostic
  auxiliary_data_dir: ./auxiliary_data

  # Use netCDF compression true/[false]
  compress_netcdf: false

  # Save intermediary cubes in the preprocessor true/[false]
  # set to true will save the output cube from each preprocessing step
  # these files are numbered according to the preprocessing order
  save_intermediary_cubes: false

  # Remove the preproc dir if all fine

>   # this option true will remove ALL preprocessor files

Reviewer 2: You want to make a full sentence out of this? Like "If this option is set to "true", it will remove ALL preprocessor files" or something.

Reviewer: Done.

boolean which turns on or off the writing of netCDF files by the diagnostic
scripts.

.. code-block:: yaml

  # Auxiliary data directory (used for some additional datasets)
  auxiliary_data_dir: ~/auxiliary_data

The ``auxiliary_data_dir`` setting is the path to place any required
additional auxiliary data files. This is necessary because certain
Python toolkits, such as cartopy, will attempt to download data files at run
time, typically geographic data files such as coastlines or land surface maps.
This can fail if the machine does not have access to the wider internet. This
location allows the user to specify where to find such files if they can not be
downloaded at runtime.

.. warning::

   This setting is not for model or observational datasets, rather it is for
   data files used in plotting such as coastline descriptions and so on.

A detailed explanation of the data finding-related sections of the
``config-user.yml`` (``rootpath`` and ``drs``) is presented in the
:ref:`data-retrieval` section. This section relates directly to the data
finding capabilities  of ESMValTool and are very important to be understood by
the user.

.. note::

>    You choose your config.yml file at run time, so you could have several of

Reviewer 2: Should be "config-user.yml" here instead of "config.yml"?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You choose your ``config-user.yml`` file at run time, so you could have several of
```

>    them available with different purposes. One for formalised run, one for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   them available with different purposes. One for a formalised run, another for
```

        [institute]/[dataset ]/[exp]/[frequency]/[modeling_realm]/[mip]/[ensemble]/latest/[short_name]

When loading these files, ESMValTool replaces the placeholders ``[item]`` with actual

> values supplied for by the information form ``config-user.yml`` and ``recipe.yml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values supplied by the user in ``config-user.yml`` and ``recipe.yml``.
```

        [institute]/[dataset ]/[exp]/[frequency]/[modeling_realm]/[mip]/[ensemble]/latest/[short_name]

When loading these files, ESMValTool replaces the placeholders ``[item]`` with
actual values supplied for by the user in ``config-user.yml`` and
``recipe.yml``. The resulting real path would look something like this:

.. code-block::

    MOHC/HadGEM2-CC/rcp85/mon/ocean/Omon/r1i1p1/latest/tos

> Again, for a more in-depth description this process, as part of the data

Reviewer 2: Is there an "of" missing? "description of this process"?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Again, for a more in-depth description of this process, as part of the data
```
